johnny-grbl
===========

jhonny-grbl can be used in 3 ways:

- Control Mode: Control an arduino grbl board from javascript. You can send gcode and operate an arduino in a higher abstraction layer than simple character protocol. Jhonny-grbl automatically converts messages for you in simple javascript objects and compose the bytearray request to send, then parses responses from grbl.

- Mock Mode: Emulate arduino in javascript. Use your favorite well proved grbl software (bcnc, universal gcode-sender, etc) and pipe the serial port to a remote javascript node server. This server can mock an autentic grbl board, simulate errors, send responses, etc. Can be used to test this programs. jhonny-grbl converts request and responses for you into simple javascript objects.

- Proxy mode. The most interesting part: Grbl usually is installed in arduino UNO with limited I/O ports. Although what he does he does very well, in real professional machines you surely need much more I/O ports and you need extend the logic to its machine concrete aspects (more tools, more sensors, etc). You would need a professional controller with posibility of extending I/Os which is much more expensive $$$$$...

Yes, you can install grbl on a mega board with many more ports, but still they may not be enough, and furthermore, it is very difficult to take advantage of unused ports because it would require mixing your logic with the grbl internals. Without a doubt, if it is working well, it's not worth getting tangled up inside.

   In proxy mode, jhonny-grbl stays in the middle, between the host program and the real grbl board. You can control all messages sended and received between the parts and extend the control logic with other arduino boards, all programmed in high level language (javascript). Examples of use:
    - Custom external automatic tool change by using another arduino board as you need.
    - External sensors send alarms to the grbl host software as if where generated by the grbl board
    - let jogging with custom external hardware
    - execute a http server and visualize all commands sended and received.
    - integrate with other solutions like external webservices, IOTs, etc.


Internals

johnny-grbl uses a well known in client side javascript: https://redux.js.org/
Redux used in the server side enables the debug and testing required in a complicated


host.in
store              grbl.out


host.out
store
